# readme

[Docs](https://github.com/PiSaucer/book-c-plus-plus/tree/569357054614b69475a73eff46aae33d4998bc5a/docs/README.md) / [Chapter2](https://github.com/PiSaucer/book-c-plus-plus/tree/569357054614b69475a73eff46aae33d4998bc5a/docs/Chapter2/README.md)

## Questions and Answers

Q: Do you have to use the keywords 'true' and 'false'?

> A: No, but it's a good idea Before the advent of the keywords 'true' and 'false', programmers often used to represent true and 0 to represent lale. However, now that 'true' and 'false' are available, it's best to use them instead of the old-fashioned I and 0.

Q: Can you assign a bool variable something other than 'true' or 'false'?

> A: Yes You can assign an expression to a bool variable, which will store the truth or falsity of the expression

Q: Can you use a 'switch' statement to test some non-integer value?

> A: No. 'Switch' statements only work with integers \(including 'char' values\).

Q: How can you test a single non-integer value against multiple values if can't use a 'switch' statement?

> A: You can use a series of 'if' statements.

Q: What's an infinite loop?

> A: A loop that will never end, regardless of user input

Q: Why are infinite loops considered bad?

> A: Because a program stuck in an infinite loop will never end on its own. Ik to be shut down by the operating system. In the worst case, a user will have shut his computer off to end a program stuck in an infinite loop.

Q: Won't a compiler catch an infinite loop and flag it as an error?

> A: No. An infinite loop is a logical error — the kind of error a programmer must track down

Q: If infinite loops are a bad thing, then isn't a 'while \(true\)' loop a bad thing?

> A: No. When a programmer creates a 'while \(true\)' loop, he should provide a way for the loop to end \(usually through a 'break' statement\).

Q: Why would a programmer create a 'while \(true\)' loop?

> A: 'while \(true\)' loops are often used for the main loop of a program, like the game loop.

Q: Why do some people feel that using a 'break' statement to exit a loop is poor programming?

> A: Because indiscriminate use of 'break' statements can make it hard to understand the conditions under which a loop break. However, sometimes the use of a 'while \(true\)' loop along with a 'break' statement can be clearer than creating the same loop in a more traditional way.

Q: What's a pseudorandom number?

> A: A random number that's usually generated by a formula. As a result, a series of pseudorandom numbers is not truly random, but good enough for most purposes.

Q: What's seeding a random number generator?

> A: It's giving the random number a seed, such as an integer, which affects the way the generator produces random numbers. If you don't seed a random number generator, it will produce the same series of number time its run from the beginning of a program.

Q: Don't you always want to seed the random number generator before using it?

> A: Not necessarily. You might want a program to produce the exact same sequence of "random" numbers each time it runs for testing purposes, for example.

Q: How can I generate more truly random numbers?

> A: There are third-party libraries that produce better pseudorandom numbers than the ones that typically come with C++ compilers.

Q: Do all games use the game loop?

> A: The game loop is just way of looking at a typical game's flow of events. And just because this paradigm fits a particulars game, that doesn't necessarily mean that the games implemented with a loop around the bulk or its code.

## Discussion Questions

1. What kinds of things would be difficult to program without loops?
2. What are the advantages and disadvantages of the 'switch' statemnet versus a series of 'if' statement?
3. When might you omit a 'break' statement from the end of a 'case' in a 'switch' statement?
4. When should you use a 'while' loop over a 'do' loop?
5. Describe your favorite game in terms of the game loop. Is the game loop a good fit?

